okay so what are our options here well
we need to
have this function that are functions of
time converted into functions of tau
that are dummy variable
and one of these functions will have to
be
flipped with respect to tau and then we
have uh we add a delay a time delay t
now which one is easier to flip
we could do either
but from
[Music]
simplicity we could take that a square
wave and flip that one it doesn't matter
which one we do
they will both give the same result
but
from what we can see here
the first one would be
the the second one excuse me would be
the easier one
to flip
so what we are calculating is the
integral
then of x of tau
times h of t minus tau
d
tau
from negative infinity
to infinity
so notice that this expression is an
expression of t minus tau instead of t
the first one is easy we can simply
replace t with tau the job is done
now the second one we need to prepare
that equation that uh
that expression in the form of h of t
minus tau so the first part
is to simply flip this equation
or this graph so this would be tau
and h
would be to flip this expression around
the tau axis
and we would have something
like this
where we are still at at zero but now we
are at negative one there
if you now add the value of
t to it as we see
in there we shift
the entire function by a amount of t so
if that's t
this here is t minus
y t minus 1 because the width of that
is 1.
all right
so are there any questions up to this
point
that's how we converse at the function x
h of t into the function h of t minus
tau
no
yeah
okay um why isn't
t minus one
all the way back there
on the purple line
on the purple one
uh which one's part uh
for the t minus one i'm just trying to
wrap my head around it yeah
yeah so
if we just flip the eq the the graph
that's what we get are we okay with this
yeah yeah so now if we add t to the
entire function the whole thing shifts
so zero becomes t
right okay and the back here becomes t
minus one so this width is still one
this width is still one
it's a time shift right you're not
stretching or multi if we're multiplying
that would is increase the weight
okay thank you
so that's then the expression
we have let me erase
this
and what do we do next well
actually let me move to the light board
we'll do next so here we have the
expressions we the graphs we derived so
this is
the
t t minus one that we just flipped that
is h of t and this is the other
expression the other graph
now when you take the integral that
integral has a value of t inside that is
unspecified which means that if you're
now looking at the entire tau axis that
value of t needs to translate needs to
cover the entire tau axis from negative
infinity all the way to positive
infinity so now i have to take this
value of tau and make it move
along
excuse me the value of t
and make that move along the tau axis
and then look at our overlaps between
just the two functions that we are
taking the convolution off
and by covering out the entire tau axis
we look at different portions that have
different overlaps and then we perform
the integration there
so
one thing to note here is this triangle
so you have two parts of this triangle
now this one here is a ramp that it
starts from zero it goes to one at time
one
so we can say that for this part
h of tau or x of tau
is simply equal to tau
and this is only valid between zero and
one right when
tau is
one
h of tau is one when tau is 0.5 h of tau
is 0.5
past 1 that relation has changed
and that occurred here between 1 and 2
is a bit different this is still a
linear curve
but we can say now that x of tau is two
minus tau
let's verify that when tau equals to one
the value of the function is one
so two minus one equals to 1 that holds
and when tau is 2 the function is at 0
tau of 2 equals to 2 minus 2 that's z
okay
so now we have all the expressions we
need to integrate we have the expression
from
zero to one for this curve and from one
to two for that i only know that a past
two is zero
lower than one that then zero it's also
zero
what is next well now we need to perform
the integration of famous integration
which is the integral from negative
infinity to infinity
of x of tau
h
of t minus tau d tau
now t here
is unspecified
so t needs to now translate cover the
entire
tau axis so let's start with t going to
negative or less than zero if t is less
than zero
then this block will be
up here and when t is less than zero we
are multiplying
zero with zero
or with a function
of tau so provided that a t is smaller
than zero
the overlap there is a function times
zero
and the result of this integration let's
call this y of t
is zero
so this is for
t
is smaller than zero
all right notice that if our
t is smaller than zero
doesn't matter
where this function is because the other
one is always zero so when you multiply
them we get zero
now let's not recover the entire
negative axis we can start to translate
t and move that towards the positive
axis so that's what we see here
t has entered the positive values we are
no longer in this region here
and because you are no longer there what
can we see well we see clearly
that there is an overlap there
of two non-zero functions
and that overlap will exist
provided that a t is smaller than one
why are we stopping at one because when
you pass one there is another overlap
starting here you need to account for
that separately
so for this first part if t
is
greater than zero but is smaller than
one
[Music]
here is the overlap
this is one
right here is the overlap
and what is that overlap
well we can
do the convolution there by taking the
integral that is only valid
for the overlap the overlap exists from
zero
to t
right but a t
can only go as high as one
the overlap exists from 0 to t
x of tau
is this function
which turns out to be tau
h of t minus tau
is the red curve which in this interval
is worth one
d tau and this integral
gives t squared
over two
right tau integral of tau is tau square
over two replace that
t square
over two
are we good with the first integration
sorry could you just repeat why the
limits of integration are zero to t
instead of zero to one yeah so i just
wanted to point out that i am already
out of like five minutes more than uh
where i wanted to be but i will continue
and uh
so we have this
in the record and so if you have any
other classes any other commitments feel
free to leave i will continue this and
then post the solution
uh yes so
do we agree that at this interval exists
between zero and one
this overlap between zero and one right
so long as t
is between zero and one there exists an
overlap there but that overlap only
exists between zero and t
right
there is no there is no overlap past t
because it's zero
oh right yeah right so the
even though we are considering
this interval
we need to stop at t
but t may go up to one
right up to one
okay i see now yeah so now let's do this
now when you pass one
which is the second graph here
we pass one
and we are now between
which values so long as t
we see two overlaps right we see one
overlap
here
and you see another overlap there so
these are two distinct ones
and this overlap will exist so long as
t is between one and two
so long as t is between one and two
these two overlaps will exist
so what is the integral there
is this first one here which is
integral from
what is this this limit
this first overlap
a first overlap exists between
t minus one and one so t minus one
and one
are the two functions which is tau times
one
d tau
plus the second overlap here the second
overlap
that now exists between 1
and t
now we are taking the overlap between is
still x of t which is one but now this
function
has changed and this function is two
minus tau
times one
detail
first overlap
second overlap first overlap exists
between
t minus one and one second overlap
exists between one and two and this can
occur
so long as t is between one and two
okay
now we can move on if we pass two
and this is this result here
is if you do the integration this is
basic math
and i just give the result here t three
t minus three square plus
three and a half
okay now we have a very last point here
where we passed number two
and if you pass number two see we are
only left with one
overlap this this is the only overlap
this is number three
as the third region
and this overlap will exist provided
that a t
is greater than two because that's where
we stopped here but it's also smaller
than
then
three
why three because when t is three
this will be up here and this t minus 1
will be 2 will be precisely on top of
this point
which is where the overlap ends
right so if t is 3
this point is there
one
three minus one is two there will be a
right on top of this and then past that
point is all zero right
so this last overlap exists provided
that a t is between two and three
and you can now take the integral there
and tell me the limits of the integral
the overlap exists between
t minus one
and two
and which functions are we integrating
this one two minus tau
this one
one
d tau
and this is one half
of
t minus three squared here
and then pass the three when t is
greater than three
this point here is two so it's going to
be to the left of number two here and
there is this portion that's zero
then for that point on x of t
y of t is zero